# AOE 4065 Air Vehicle Design

## Context

I teach the AOE 4065 Air Vehicle Design class. 

In class, teams are given an RFP with requirements and missions the aircraft must do and the students need to design an aircraft that can complete this mission. 

Goal for the end of the semester:
A aircraft sizing framework with enough fidelity to distinguish between aircraft concepts, make quantitative trades among the concepts, and pick a preferred system concept (PSC). This framework, for example for fighter aircraft, should distinguish between a single engine vs. twin engine fighter, a conventional fuselage vs. a blended wing body, a conventional tail vs. a twin tail vs canard, a delta wing vs. higher aspect ratio wing.   

This starts with a clear definition of what the aircraft must do. 
There are atleast 2 categories of requirements:
1. Point Performance Requirements
	These define particular performance that the aircraft must meet. For example, takeoff in 8000 ft runway, stall speed has to be greater than 60 knots, .... Each of these is associated with a flight condition (altitude and Mach number) and a weight fraction (takeoff will be when the aircraft is nearly full, landing will be the aircraft is significantly lighter, etc.)
2. Mission Requirements
	This defines the actual mission the aircraft must perform. There are mission segments like takoff, climb, cruise, loiter, combat, descend, land, etc. There are definitions for aspects of the mission segments (cruise 2000 nm, loiter for 45 minutes, etc.)

There are other requirements such as stakeholder requirements, regulatory requirements. 

Then there are measures of merit (MoM) that the team will define and will use to evaluate the goodness of a design against those MoMs. 

There are aircraft disciplines such as aerodynamics, propulsion, weight, stability & control, etc. For each discipline there is the idea of fidelity of the analysis. As an example, for the weight model, we can start with an extremely simple weight model (empty weight fraction is a function of takeoff gross weight) or move to more complex component build-up models (wing weight depends on the sweep angle, thickness-to-chord ratio, etc.). As the fidelity goes up, typically, more detailed geometry parameters will be needed. In propulsion, the simplest model will be a historical value of the TSFC based on the engine type and the moving to higher fidelity models such as Mattingly's equations. 
The idea is to start with the lower fidelity models to get into the right ballpark and then progressively refine the design.


Some definitions:
- Mission analysis: goes through the entire mission and computes fuel burn (or battery energy)
- Constraint analysis: point performance requirements to obtain necessary thrust (or power) loading and wing loading
- Weight estimation: obtain empty weight
- Sizing: uses the other analysis to obtain the TOGW, sea-level static thrust, wing reference area

Mission analysis also has fidelity levels. We can treat the entire cruise segment as a single segment or break into smaller chunks so that it gives a more accurate estimate of fuel needed in the cruise segment. 

The Fidelity-Levels.md is a summary of the different fidelity levels that will be used in AOE 4065. I want to start the students off with an initial sizing framework (L1Sizing). This version will not have sufficient accuracy to distinguish features of the aircraft. For example, in a fighter aircraft, it will have a hard time distinguishing between F16 and F18. As we move to higher fidelity models, it can distinguish between aircraft. 

To baseline this code, the F-16 aircraft will be used. As this is an already designed aircraft, many of the geometry parameters will be given as inputs. The students, when applying to their aircraft design concepts, need to do design space exploration for all these parameters (design variables) and find what it best to meet MoM they define. 
